**Investigating Aneuploidy Events Associated with Immunosuppressive Phenotype in Ovarian Cancer!**

Abstract 
Background: Aneuploidies, led by chromosome arm-level copy number alterations, are commonly observed in ovarian cancers, yet their roles in dysregulation of anti-tumour immunity remain poorly defined. We therefore hypothesized that aneuploidy play a role in cancer immune microenvironment. This study aims to identify immune associated arm-level copy number alterations and uncover its underlying molecular mechanism. 
Methods: Utilizing bulk RNA sequencing data from The Cancer Genome Atlas and Hammersmith Hospital, we applied computational tools including FACETs, GISTIC2, and BISCUT to decode cancer copy number change and for in-depth genomic analysis. Pattern of arm-level copy number alterations were associated with immune markers, cell density, patient survival, and treatment response to identify potential immune-related arm-level copy number alterations. Single cell sequencing (scRNA-Seq) data from 42 HGSOC patients were utilised to explore the underlying molecular mechanism. 
Results: chromosome 2q amplification in ovarian cancer was consistently associated with an immunosuppressive phenotype, reduced immune cell infiltration, and worse prognosis. Single-cell analyses highlighted a suppression of interferon signalling and altered cellular communication, suggesting 2q amplification could play a significant role in immune escape mechanisms in ovarian cancer.
Conclusion: Our findings identifies that 2q amplification is associated with immune evasion in ovarian cancer, providing a novel perspective on the genomic basis of cancer immunology. The study advances our understanding of aneuploidy in tumorigenesis and paves the way for future work to explore therapeutic targets.

